adding cscs docs for the sycl prgenv-gnu dpcpp. (#443)
eth-cscs/cscs-docs: docs/software/prgenv/prgenv-gnu-dpcpp.md

[](){#ref-uenv-prgenv-gnu-dpcpp}
# prgenv-gnu-dpcpp

Provides the [`prgenv-gnu`][ref-uenv-prgenv-gnu] toolchain together with the Intel DPC++ (SYCL) compiler with a CUDA backend.

> It is for building SYCL applications that target the [GH200][ref-alps-gh200-node] GPUs on Alps aarch64 systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is for building SYCL applications that target the [gh200][ref-alps-gh200-node] nodes on Alps.
```

!!! note "experimental and not officially supported"
    `prgenv-gnu-dpcpp` is experimental and not officially supported.
    It is provided as-is and may break or be removed on system upgrades.
    It is currently deployed only on [Daint][ref-cluster-daint].

    Try [`prgenv-gnu`][ref-uenv-prgenv-gnu] first, because it is better tested and better supported.
    Use `prgenv-gnu-dpcpp` only if you specifically need the DPC++ (SYCL) compiler; it provides the same package set as `prgenv-gnu/25.11`, plus DPC++.

[](){#ref-uenv-prgenv-gnu-dpcpp-versioning}
## Versioning

The naming scheme is `prgenv-gnu-dpcpp/<version>`, where `<version>` tracks the [`prgenv-gnu`][ref-uenv-prgenv-gnu] version it extends, in the `YY.M[M]` format (for example `25.11` for November 2025).

The release schedule is not fixed.

> New versions are released when the underlying `prgenv-gnu` version is updated, or when there is a compelling reason.

Reviewer: I wouldn't commit to matching every `prgenv-gnu` release: if we don't have many/any users, that is a big commitment.

```suggestion
New versions will be released to match an underlying `prgenv-gnu` based on user requests: contact the CSCS [service desk](https://jira.cscs.ch/plugins/servlet/desk) for an updated version.
```
